0Kage

medium

# A malicious depositor can increase the interest payment of borrowers by manipulating the compounding frequency of borrowing

## Summary
It's a well known Defi concept that for a given interest rate, higher the compounding frequency, higher would be the interest paid by the borrower.  

Current implementation, interest seems to be simply compounded (`rate * delta_t`) - however this interest is added on to the existing debt to create a compounding effect. And the frequency of compounding is directly proportional to the frequency of calling a function `getCurrentState` - this function gets called prior to every major pool operation (deposit/withdraw/borrow/repay/liquidate). In effect, we have a variable compounding frequency situation.

A malicious depositor can turn this into a continuous compounding by depositing a dust amount into the pool every 1 second. Since rate is fixed, interest paid by borrowers would be higher than usual when compounded at a 1 sec interval. Cost of executing this attack is just the gas fee for 1 depositor but gains are the extra interest earned on the entire pool outstanding debt.

## Vulnerability Detail
[`getCurrentState`](https://github.com/Surge-fi/surge-protocol-v1/blob/b7cb1dc2a2dcb4bf22c765a4222d7520843187c6/src/Pool.sol#L105) 
is responsible for updating state. One of the state variables updated is `totalDebt` -> interest from last accrual timestamp is added to the old debt to get the new outstanding debt. Although, calculation follows a simple interest model (as seen below), fact that interest is added on to the current debt creates a compounding effect. And frequency of compounding is determined by the time interval between two successive calls to the `getCurrentState` function.

```solidity
    function getCurrentState(
        uint _loanTokenBalance,
        uint _feeMantissa,
        uint _lastCollateralRatioMantissa,
        uint _totalSupply,
        uint _lastAccrueInterestTime,
        uint _totalDebt
        ) 
        {
                ...
                
                // 8. Calculate the borrow rate
                uint _borrowRate = getBorrowRateMantissa(_util, SURGE_MANTISSA, MIN_RATE, SURGE_RATE, MAX_RATE);
                // 9. Calculate the interest  //-------@audit -> simple interest calculation
                uint _interest = _totalDebt * _borrowRate * _timeDelta / (365 days * 1e18); // does the optimizer optimize this? or should it be a constant?
                // 10. Update the total debt
                _currentTotalDebt += _interest;
                
                ...
        }

```

This can be exploited by a malicious depositor who wants to squeeze maximum interest payout from borrowers. By depositing a dust amount of `1 wei` every 1 second, any depositor can force interest to continuously (almost) compound for borrowers. Compounding effect over a large time scale (eg. 1 year) can cause interest payout that is higher than expected. Depositor can maximise her payout by maliciously increasing compounding frequency

## Impact
To give a sense of numbers, a 10% annualized rate on 1 million USDC borrowing with a continuous compounding earns $105k USDC as interest in 1 year. Same borrowing in simple compounding earns $100k - A 5% increase in interest payout for depositors.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/Surge-fi/surge-protocol-v1/blob/b7cb1dc2a2dcb4bf22c765a4222d7520843187c6/src/Pool.sol#L105

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
Looking at formulas, I'm guessing protocol wants to keep it simple and accrue simple interest for depositors. If that is the case, apart from `totalDebt`, protocol should introduce another state variable called `totalPrincipal` - this is just the principal outstanding for the pool excluding accrued interest. For interest computation, replace `currentDebt` with `totalPrincipal` in the interest calculations in Line 154. Liquidations, Utilization calculations etc can still happen on `totalDebt` but for interest calculations, `totalPrincipal` can be used.

This would give borrowers & depositors an exact estimate of interest payouts over time & avoid variations due to variable compounding (that can be manipulated to benefit depositors)