RaymondFam

high

# Surge state will be targeted to liquidate underwater borrowers when the market value of collateral token soars

## Summary
Pools with utilization rate relatively close to the surge threshold will be manipulated to make the pool collateral ratio fall when the market value of collateral tokens has significantly increased over loan tokens.

## Vulnerability Detail
Here is one of the possible exploit scenario:

Loan token = DAI
Collateral token = WETH (market value: 1000 DAI)
Maximum collateral ratio = 800 : 1
Surge threshold = 80%
Current utilization rate = 75%

1. The market value of WETH suddenly surges to 1500 DAI.
2. The liquidators pushes the utilization rate up via [`borrow()`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L455) by using multiple accounts with low collateral ratios.
3. The utilization surges past 80%, triggering the surge state where the pool collateral ratio begins to fall at a constant rate over time.
4. The liquidators ensure the surge state persists whilst seizing collateral from underwater borrowers in exchange for repaying their debts. 
5. The liquidators also make sure their debts are repaid to avoid [`userCollateralRatioMantissa > _currentCollateralRatioMantissa`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L574) as the pool collateral ratio continues to fall.

## Impact
Some borrowers manage to escape liquidation by paying up their debts while a handful of them do not make it mostly due to the borrowed funds currently stuck elsewhere in locked staking, investment, business spending etc. The longer the surge state lasts, the more gain the liquidators is going to reap. Although the rise in collateral token value in relation to the loan token encourages suppliers to increase the pool liquidity, the interest incentive entailed is very minimal when compared to the lucrative arbitrage via [`liquidate()`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L553). In fact, suppliers will start removing liquidity to avoid bad debt after seeing the linear falling trend of the pool collateral ratio. 

## Code Snippet
As can be seen from the last two code lines of `liquidate()` below, the value of `COLLATERAL_TOKEN` received from the contract over the value of `LOAN_TOKEN` transferred to the contract can be significant and even more excessive when compounded/accumulated on a series of successful liquidations: 

[File: Pool.sol#L607-L608](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L607-L608)

```solidity
        safeTransferFrom(LOAN_TOKEN, msg.sender, address(this), _amount);
        safeTransfer(COLLATERAL_TOKEN, msg.sender, collateralReward);
```
For instance, one single call on `liquidate()` using 5000 DAI to repay a borrower's debt whose `collateralBalanceOf[_borrower] == 10e18` will have the liquidator reap 10 * 1500 - 5000 ~ 10_000 DAI, assuming the interest associated is negligible in this calculation.

And, the shorter [`COLLATERAL_RATIO_FALL_DURATION`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L33) is, the steeper the linear slope is, making the minimum duration before the above borrower gets liquidated sooner than one could imagine.

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Consider implementing a `borrowerSelfRescue()` that will have a flash loan logic embedded so that liquid tight borrowers are given a chance to get themselves out of these helpless situations by paying up their debts to retain the differential in asset values rightfully belonging to them.
