ast3ros

high

# # [H-01] Liquidation reward can be wrongly calculated because of round.

## Summary

Due to rounding errors in the `collateralReward` variable, the liquidation reward may not be calculated accurately.

## Vulnerability Detail

When liquidation a loan, a user will call the function `pool.liquidate`.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L553

The formula for calculating the collateral reward amount for a partial liquidation is:

            uint userInvertedCollateralRatioMantissa = collateralBalance * 1e18 / userDebt;
            collateralReward = _amount * userInvertedCollateralRatioMantissa / 1e18; // rounds down

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L585-L586

The error occurs when `_amount * userInvertedCollateralRatioMantissa` produces a number lower than 1e18. This causes the collateralReward to be rounded down to 0.

This scenario is common when the Collateral Ratio is high (For example in case of borrow USDT - collateral ETH, the collateral ratio could be 2000e18 or 3000e18).
This results in a low `userInvertedCollateralRatioMantissa` (around e15). Therefore, when the liquidation amount is less than e3, the `_amount * userInvertedCollateralRatioMantissa` will be less than e18.
And  `_amount * userInvertedCollateralRatioMantissa / 1e18` is rounded down to 0.

POC: please put in ./test/Pool.t.sol

        function testRewardError() external {
            uint amount = 1e18;
            MockERC20 collateralToken = new MockERC20(amount*10000, 18);
            MockERC20 loanToken = new MockERC20(amount * 10000, 18);
            // Set collateral max to 5000e18
            Pool pool = factory.deploySurgePool(IERC20(address(collateralToken)), IERC20(address(loanToken)), 5000e18, 0.5e18, 1e15, 1e15, 0.1e18, 0.4e18, 0.6e18);
            loanToken.approve(address(pool), type(uint).max);
            collateralToken.approve(address(pool), type(uint).max);

            // Deposit all 10000e18
            pool.deposit(amount * 10000);

            // Colateral: 1e18
            pool.addCollateral(address(this), amount);

            // Borrow: 5000e18
            pool.borrow(amount * 5000);
            vm.warp(block.timestamp + 365 days);

            // Accrue interest
            pool.withdraw(0);

            // Liquidate 1000 unit
            uint collateralTokenBefore = collateralToken.balanceOf(address(this));
            pool.liquidate(address(this), 1000);
            uint collateralTokenAfter = collateralToken.balanceOf(address(this));

            // No collateral reward is received
            assertEq(collateralTokenBefore, collateralTokenAfter);
        }

## Impact

When a user attempts to partially liquidate a small amount of debt, they may not receive any collateral reward due to rounding errors in the calculation, even though they have paid for the debt. This risk increases when the ERC20 token has fewer decimals and the collateral ratio is higher.

This bug could discourage users from liquidating debt and disrupt the pool's operation.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L585-L586

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

- Instead of dividing by e^18, calculate the reward dynamically based on the decimals of the tokens.
- Verify that the calculation does not round down to 0.