OCC

medium

# Potential division by zero in getBorrowRateMantissa function


## Summary
The `getBorrowRateMantissa` function does not check whether` _surgeMantissa` is zero before performing a division operation, for this why,  the code may allow division by zero.

## Vulnerability Detail
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L176
There is performs a division operation in the `getBorrowRateMantissa ` function without verifying whether the divisor  `_surgeMantissa ` is zero. This can creates a potential division by zero that can crash the program or lead to unpredictable behavior.  
Since, the divisor` _surgeMantissa` represents the utilization at which the borrow rate will be at the surge rate, so it is rare scence that the value is zero . But if we add a checker to check the issue,  it can improve the security of this contract.

## Impact
Crash the program or lead to unpredictable behavior.

## Code Snippet

## Tool used

### Manual Review

## Recommendation
To fix this issue, we can add a check to ensure that `_surgeMantissa` is not zero before performing the division operation. One way to do this is to add an `require` statement at the beginning of the function that checks if `_surgeMantissa` is greater than zero. 

Here's an example of how to modify the code:

```solidity
function getBorrowRateMantissa(uint _util, uint _surgeMantissa, uint _minRateMantissa, uint _surgeRateMantissa, uint _maxRateMantissa) internal pure returns (uint) {
    require(_surgeMantissa > 0, "Surge mantissa cannot be zero");  // add a checker
    if(_util <= _surgeMantissa) {
        return (_surgeRateMantissa - _minRateMantissa) * 1e18 * _util / _surgeMantissa / 1e18 + _minRateMantissa;
    } else {
        uint excessUtil = _util - _surgeMantissa;
        return (_maxRateMantissa - _surgeRateMantissa) * 1e18 * excessUtil / (1e18 - _surgeMantissa) / 1e18 + _surgeRateMantissa;
    }
}

```
With this modification, if `_surgeMantissa` is zero, the function will throw an error with the message "**Surge mantissa cannot be zero**" and execution will be halted.
