unforgiven

medium

# user may lose funds because code doesn't check that calculate amounts are not 0

## Summary
in functions deposit(), withdraw(), borrow() and repay() users would pay underlying token and receive share token or burn share token and receive underlying token. code calculates share amount based on user provided token amount but in most cases there is no check that calculated share amount is not 0 and users may lose funds because of this. (receive no token while burning shares or paying token and receive no share)

## Vulnerability Detail
This is `withdraw()` code:
```solidity
    function withdraw(uint amount) external {
        uint _loanTokenBalance = LOAN_TOKEN.balanceOf(address(this));
        (address _feeRecipient, uint _feeMantissa) = FACTORY.getFee();
        (  
            uint _currentTotalSupply,
            uint _accruedFeeShares,
            uint _currentCollateralRatioMantissa,
            uint _currentTotalDebt
        ) = getCurrentState(
            _loanTokenBalance,
            _feeMantissa,
            lastCollateralRatioMantissa,
            totalSupply,
            lastAccrueInterestTime,
            lastTotalDebt
        );

        uint _shares;
        if (amount == type(uint).max) {
            amount = balanceOf[msg.sender] * (_currentTotalDebt + _loanTokenBalance) / _currentTotalSupply;
            _shares = balanceOf[msg.sender];
        } else {
            _shares = tokenToShares(amount, (_currentTotalDebt + _loanTokenBalance), _currentTotalSupply, true);
        }
        _currentTotalSupply -= _shares;
```
As you can see there is no check that `amount` is not 0 and if user calls `withdraw(0)` because of the rounding up when calculating `share` amount, then user would burn some of this shares while receiving 0 tokens. so code should check that amount is not 0.
another issue is that when user set `amount` as `type(uint).max` code calculates `amount` based on users current total shares. but because of the rounding error the calculated `amount` may be 0 and code would burn user shares but user would receive not funds and users dust shares would be lost. the dust amounts can be redeemable if they sum up later.

The same two issue exists in `borrow()` and `repay()` too. in `borrow()` user don't check that `amount` is not 0 and user may receive no loan token but his debt share would increase (code rounds up when calculating debt share amount). in `repay()` code transfer user debt token amount and calculate debt share amount (rounding down) and doesn't check that calculated share amount is not zero and user may pay some of his loan while burning no debt share of his balance.

## Impact
User would lose dust funds slowly while those funds could be redeemable later when they sums up.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/Surge-fi/surge-protocol-v1/blob/b7cb1dc2a2dcb4bf22c765a4222d7520843187c6/src/Pool.sol#L348-L372
https://github.com/Surge-fi/surge-protocol-v1/blob/b7cb1dc2a2dcb4bf22c765a4222d7520843187c6/src/Pool.sol#L455-L483
https://github.com/Surge-fi/surge-protocol-v1/blob/b7cb1dc2a2dcb4bf22c765a4222d7520843187c6/src/Pool.sol#L524-L527

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
check that calculated amounts or shares are not 0 and if they are revert.