8545-J

medium

# Interest can be lower than expected

## Summary
The interest calculation is imprecise when the `_totalDebt` is low, which can lead to the interest calculated being lower than expected.

## Vulnerability Detail
Interest is calculated as:
```solidity
uint _interest = (_totalDebt * _borrowRate * _timeDelta) / (365 days * 1e18); 
```
Suppose `_borrowRate` is 1e17, `_timeDelta` is 1 and `_totalDebt` is 1e8. The numerator of this calculation would be 1e25 and the denominator of this calculation is a constant 3.1536e25. `_interest` would therefore be calculated as 0 and no interest would be added, which is unfair to the fee recipient or the lenders.

Additionally, if the `_totalDebt` is higher, such that `_interest` is not zero but is a single digit, the interest calculation is still unacceptably imprecise.

## Impact
This can lead to the interest being lower than expected, resulting in a loss to the lenders or the fee recipient. This issue is particularly important if the loan token has a relatively low number of decimals, as then it would be more viable/expected for the `_totalDebt` to be too low for the interest calculation to work properly.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/Surge-fi/surge-protocol-v1/blob/b7cb1dc2a2dcb4bf22c765a4222d7520843187c6/src/Pool.sol#L154
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Rework the interest calculation to have greater precision, such as by requiring the `_timeDelta` to be sufficiently high before running the interest calculation where the `_totalDebt` is below a certain level.