Chinmay

medium

# User may not be able to withdraw his token or remove collateral if tokens blacklist their address

## Summary
Many ERC20 tokens have blacklisting functionality which prevents addresses from interacting with their token contract. Examples are USDC, USDT. If a user's address gets blacklisted due to any reason, this will cause DoS for them.
## Vulnerability Detail
The repay() and addCollateral() functions provide an address as a parameter representing the borrower address, and this prevents users from DoS due to external token contracts blacklisting. 

However the removeCollateral() and withdraw() function lack this functionality. This would prevent users from removing their collateral token / withdrawing their supplied assets until the token removes them from their blacklist. 

Since the protocol plans to support all ERC20 tokens and many popular tokens have blacklists, it is important to provide this feature in all relevant functions consistently. 
## Impact
Users would lose their funds forever if the token contract doesn't unblacklist them. Also they would not get the funds when they need it. 
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L414

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L348
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Include a address parameter where funds are to be sent. User could provide his address currently used in the protocol and a different one if the current one gets blacklisted. This would allow user functionality in all cases. 