Chinmay

high

# User can remove his collateral without repaying the debt

## Summary
The removeCollateral() function does not check if the borrowers has paid his remaining debt. 
## Vulnerability Detail
Suppose that a user took debt of 100 wei of a token at a collateral ratio of 10 ie. his deposited collateral would be 10 wei. When he calls removeCollateral() with amount = 5 wei of collateral the calculation of userCollateralRatio turns out to be = 20 which is well within the limits of a normal collateral ratio. Hence the check at Line 434 would pass and user would get a quantity of his collateral.

In all of this process, nowhere it was checked if the user has paid his pending debt. He could do it multiple times and benefit at the cost of lenders of the pool. What I showed is just an example, he could try optimum amounts to get the most amount of his collateral out.
## Impact
Attacker could remove collateral without paying the debt. This would cost liquidators if they liquidate such a position as they would get very low collateral balance. Also, this would inculcate bad debt for all the lenders.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-surge/blob/main/surge-protocol-v1/src/Pool.sol#L433

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Add a statement debtSharesBalanceOf(borrower) < a dust amount to the removeCollateral() function thus forcing the user to first pay the pending debt. This would assure that the debt has been paid before removing the collateral. Do Not use zero in the check because that would prevent honest borrowers from removing their collateral when dust amount of shares is remaining. 